= FbGraph

A full-stack Facebook Graph API wrapper in Ruby.

== Installation

  gem install fb_graph

== Resources

* View RDoc on RDoc.info (http://rdoc.info/github/nov/fb_graph)
* View Source on GitHub (http://github.com/nov/fb_graph)
* Report Issues on GitHub (http://github.com/nov/fb_graph/issues)
* Q&A on Google Groups (https://groups.google.com/group/fb_graph)
* Facebook Page (http://www.facebook.com/pages/FbGraph/117513961602338)

== Examples

Now FbGraph supports all objects listed here: http://developers.facebook.com/docs/reference/api/
Almost all connections　for each object are also supported. (Private message connections are not supported yet)

Plus, you can play an Rails sample app here. http://fbgraphsample.heroku.com/

=== GET

==== Basic Objects

  user = FbGraph::User.me(ACCESS_TOKEN)

  user = FbGraph::User.fetch('matake')
  user.name    # => 'Nov Matake'
  user.picture # => 'https://graph.facebook.com/matake/picture'

  # fb_graph doesn't access to Graph API until you call "fetch"
  user = FbGraph::User.new('matake', :access_token => YOUR_ACCESS_TOKEN)
  user.identifier # => "matake"
  user.name # => nil
  user.link # => nil
  user.fetch
  user.name # => "Nov Matake"
  user.description # => "http://www.facebook.com/matake"

  page = FbGraph::Page.fetch('smartfmteam')
  page.name     # => 'smart.fm'
  page.picture  # => 'https://graph.facebook.com/smart.fm/picture'

  :

==== Connections

  # Public connections
  user = FbGraph::User.fetch('matake')
  user.feed
  user.posts
  user.friends
  user.tagged
  :
  
  # Private connections requires "access_token"
  FbGraph::User.new('matake').friends # => raise FbGraph::Unauthorized
  user = FbGraph::User.fetch('matake', :access_token => ACCESS_TOKEN)
  user.albums
  user.events
  user.friends
  user.likes
  :
  
  # "home" connection is only available for "me"
  me = User.new('me', :access_token => ACCESS_TOKEN)
  me.home
  :

==== Search

  # all objects
  FbGraph::Searchable.search("FbGraph") # => Array of Hash

  # specify type
  FbGraph::Page.search("FbGraph") # => Array of FbGraph::Page
  FbGraph::User.search("matake", :access_token => ACCESS_TOKEN) # => Array of FbGraph::User

==== Pagination

  # collection
  user = FbGraph::User.new('matake', :access_token => ACCESS_TOKEN)
  likes = user.likes # => Array of FbGraph::Like
  likes.next         # => Array of FbGraph::Like (next page)
  likes.previous     # => Array of FbGraph::Like (previous page)
  likes.collection.next     # => Hash for pagination options (ex. {"limit"=>"25", "until"=>"2010-08-08T03:17:21+0000"})
  likes.collection.previous # => Hash for pagination options (ex. {"limit"=>"25", "since"=>"2010-08-08T06:28:20+0000"})
  user.likes(likes.collection.next)     # => same with likes.next
  user.likes(likes.collection.previous) # => same with likes.previous

  # search results
  results = FbGraph::Page.search("FbGraph") # => Array of FbGraph::Page
  results.next     # => Array of FbGraph::Page (next page)
  results.previous # => Array of FbGraph::Page (next page)
  results.klass    # => FbGraph::Page
  results.collection.next     # => Hash for pagination options (ex. {"limit"=>"25", "until"=>"2010-08-08T03:17:21+0000"})
  results.collection.previous # => Hash for pagination options (ex. {"limit"=>"25", "since"=>"2010-08-08T06:28:20+0000"})
  results.klass.search(results.query, results.collection.next)     # => same with results.next
  results.klass.search(results.query, results.collection.previous) # => same with results.previous

=== POST

==== Update status (wall post)

  me = FbGraph::User.me(ACCESS_TOKEN)
  me.feed!(
    :message => 'Updating via FbGraph',
    :picture => 'https://graph.facebook.com/matake/picture',
    :link => 'http://github.com/nov/fb_graph',
    :name => 'FbGraph',
    :description => 'A Ruby wrapper for Facebook Graph API'
  )

==== Post a like/comment to a post

  post = FbGraph::Page.new(117513961602338).feed.first
  bool = post.like!(
    :access_token => ACCESS_TOKEN
  )
  comment = post.comment!(
    :access_token => ACCESS_TOKEN,
    :message => 'Hey, I\'m testing you!'
  )

==== Post a note

  page = FbGraph::Page.new(117513961602338)
  note = page.note!(
    :access_token => ACCESS_TOKEN,
    :subject => 'testing',
    :message => 'Hey, I\'m testing you!'
  )

==== Post a link

  me = FbGraph::User.me(ACCESS_TOKEN)
  link = me.link!(
    :link => 'http://github.com/nov/fb_graph',
    :message => 'A Ruby wrapper for Facebook Graph API.'
  )

==== Create Event, respond to it

  me = FbGraph::User.me(ACCESS_TOKEN)
  event = me.event!(
    :name => 'FbGraph test event',
    :start_time => 1.week.from_now.to_i,
    :end_time => 2.week.from_now.to_i
  )
  bool = event.attending!(
    :access_token => ACCESS_TOKEN
  )
  bool = event.maybe!(
    :access_token => ACCESS_TOKEN
  )
  bool = event.declined!(
    :access_token => ACCESS_TOKEN
  )

==== Create an album

  me = FbGraph::User.me(ACCESS_TOKEN)
  album = me.album!(
    :name => 'FbGraph test',
    :message => 'test test test'
  ) # => now facebook Graph API returns weird response for this call

==== Upload a photo to an album

  me = FbGraph::User.me(ACCESS_TOKEN)
  album = me.albums.first
  album.photo!(
    :access_token => ACCESS_TOKEN,
    :image => File.new('/Users/nov/Desktop/nov.gif', 'rb'), # 'rb' is needed only on windows
    :message => 'Hello, where is photo?'
  )

=== DELETE

==== Delete an object

  post = FbGraph::Page.new(117513961602338).feed.first
  bool = post.like!(
    :access_token => ACCESS_TOKEN
  )
  comment = post.comment!(
    :access_token => ACCESS_TOKEN,
    :message => 'Hey, I\'m testing you!'
  )
  comment.destroy(:access_token => ACCESS_TOKEN)
  post.unlike!(:access_token => ACCESS_TOKEN)
  post.destroy(:access_token => ACCESS_TOKEN)

=== Authentication

Both Facebook JavaScript SDK and normal OAuth2 flow is supported.
Below I show simple sample code.
You can also see http://github.com/nov/fb_graph_sample for more details Rails3 sample application.

==== JavaScript SDK

  fb_auth = FbGraph::Auth.new(YOUR_APP_ID, YOUR_APPLICATION_SECRET)
  fb_auth.client # => OAuth2::Client

  # get Facebook's auth cookie in advance using their JS SDK
  fb_auth.from_cookie(cookies)
  fb_auth.access_token # => OAuth2::AccessToken
  fb_auth.user         # => FbGraph::User (only basic attributes)
  fb_auth.user.fetch   # => fetch more details

==== Normal OAuth2 Flow

  # redirect user to facebook
  redirect_to fb_auth.client.web_server.authorize_url(
    :redirect_uri => "http://your.client.com/facebook/callback",
    :scope => "email,read_stream,offline_access"
  )

  # in callback
  fb_auth.client.web_server.get_access_token(
    params[:code],
    :redirect_uri => callback_facebook_url
  ) # => OAuth2::AccessToken
  FbGraph::User.me(access_token).fetch # => fetch user

=== Analytics

  app = FbGraph::Application.new(YOUR_APP_ID, :secret => YOUR_APPLICATION_SECRET)
  app.insights # => Array of FbGraph::Insight

=== Test User

Not tested well yet.
Sample is here.
https://gist.github.com/752974

=== FQL

Not tested well yet.
Sample is here.
https://gist.github.com/752914

== Documents

Currently fb_graph isn't so well documented.

I'm continuously updating RDoc now, but writing all documents <b>in English</b> is heavy task for me.

Please see RDoc.info (http://rdoc.info/github/nov/fb_graph), and if the document is missing or hard to understand, please contact me on github.

I'll add more documents or sample code.

=== Objects

* FbGraph::Album[http://rdoc.info/github/nov/fb_graph/master/FbGraph/Album]
* FbGraph::Application[http://rdoc.info/github/nov/fb_graph/master/FbGraph/Application]
* FbGraph::Checkin[http://rdoc.info/github/nov/fb_graph/master/FbGraph/Checkin]
* FbGraph::Comment[http://rdoc.info/github/nov/fb_graph/master/FbGraph/Comment]
* FbGraph::Event[http://rdoc.info/github/nov/fb_graph/master/FbGraph/Event]
* FbGraph::Group[http://rdoc.info/github/nov/fb_graph/master/FbGraph/Group]
* FbGraph::Insight[http://rdoc.info/github/nov/fb_graph/master/FbGraph/Insight]
* FbGraph::Link[http://rdoc.info/github/nov/fb_graph/master/FbGraph/Link]
* FbGraph::Note[http://rdoc.info/github/nov/fb_graph/master/FbGraph/Note]
* FbGraph::Page[http://rdoc.info/github/nov/fb_graph/master/FbGraph/Page]
* FbGraph::Photo[http://rdoc.info/github/nov/fb_graph/master/FbGraph/Photo]
* FbGraph::Post[http://rdoc.info/github/nov/fb_graph/master/FbGraph/Post]
* FbGraph::Status[http://rdoc.info/github/nov/fb_graph/master/FbGraph/Status]
* FbGraph::Subscription[http://rdoc.info/github/nov/fb_graph/master/FbGraph/Subscription]
* FbGraph::User[http://rdoc.info/github/nov/fb_graph/master/FbGraph/User]
* FbGraph::Video[http://rdoc.info/github/nov/fb_graph/master/FbGraph/Video]

=== Connections

* FbGraph::Connections::Accounts[http://rdoc.info/github/nov/fb_graph/master/FbGraph/Connections/Accounts]
* FbGraph::Connections::Activities[http://rdoc.info/github/nov/fb_graph/master/FbGraph/Connections/Activities]
* FbGraph::Connections::Albums[http://rdoc.info/github/nov/fb_graph/master/FbGraph/Connections/Albums]
* FbGraph::Connections::Attending[http://rdoc.info/github/nov/fb_graph/master/FbGraph/Connections/Attending]
* FbGraph::Connections::Books[http://rdoc.info/github/nov/fb_graph/master/FbGraph/Connections/Books]
* FbGraph::Connections::Checkins[http://rdoc.info/github/nov/fb_graph/master/FbGraph/Connections/Checkins]
* FbGraph::Connections::Comments[http://rdoc.info/github/nov/fb_graph/master/FbGraph/Connections/Comments]
* FbGraph::Connections::Declined[http://rdoc.info/github/nov/fb_graph/master/FbGraph/Connections/Declined]
* FbGraph::Connections::Events[http://rdoc.info/github/nov/fb_graph/master/FbGraph/Connections/Events]
* FbGraph::Connections::Feed[http://rdoc.info/github/nov/fb_graph/master/FbGraph/Connections/Feed]
* FbGraph::Connections::Friends[http://rdoc.info/github/nov/fb_graph/master/FbGraph/Connections/Friends]
* FbGraph::Connections::Groups[http://rdoc.info/github/nov/fb_graph/master/FbGraph/Connections/Groups]
* FbGraph::Connections::Home[http://rdoc.info/github/nov/fb_graph/master/FbGraph/Connections/Home]
* FbGraph::Connections::Insights[http://rdoc.info/github/nov/fb_graph/master/FbGraph/Connections/Insights]
* FbGraph::Connections::Interests[http://rdoc.info/github/nov/fb_graph/master/FbGraph/Connections/Interests]
* FbGraph::Connections::Invited[http://rdoc.info/github/nov/fb_graph/master/FbGraph/Connections/Invited]
* FbGraph::Connections::Likes[http://rdoc.info/github/nov/fb_graph/master/FbGraph/Connections/Likes]
* FbGraph::Connections::Links[http://rdoc.info/github/nov/fb_graph/master/FbGraph/Connections/Links]
* FbGraph::Connections::Maybe[http://rdoc.info/github/nov/fb_graph/master/FbGraph/Connections/Maybe]
* FbGraph::Connections::Members[http://rdoc.info/github/nov/fb_graph/master/FbGraph/Connections/Members]
* FbGraph::Connections::Movies[http://rdoc.info/github/nov/fb_graph/master/FbGraph/Connections/Movies]
* FbGraph::Connections::Music[http://rdoc.info/github/nov/fb_graph/master/FbGraph/Connections/Music]
* FbGraph::Connections::Noreply[http://rdoc.info/github/nov/fb_graph/master/FbGraph/Connections/Noreply]
* FbGraph::Connections::Notes[http://rdoc.info/github/nov/fb_graph/master/FbGraph/Connections/Notes]
* FbGraph::Connections::Photos[http://rdoc.info/github/nov/fb_graph/master/FbGraph/Connections/Photos]
* FbGraph::Connections::Picture[http://rdoc.info/github/nov/fb_graph/master/FbGraph/Connections/Picture]
* FbGraph::Connections::Statuses[http://rdoc.info/github/nov/fb_graph/master/FbGraph/Connections/Statuses]
* FbGraph::Connections::Subscriptions[http://rdoc.info/github/nov/fb_graph/master/FbGraph/Connections/Subscriptions]
* FbGraph::Connections::Tagged[http://rdoc.info/github/nov/fb_graph/master/FbGraph/Connections/Tagged]
* FbGraph::Connections::Television[http://rdoc.info/github/nov/fb_graph/master/FbGraph/Connections/Television]
* FbGraph::Connections::Videos[http://rdoc.info/github/nov/fb_graph/master/FbGraph/Connections/Videos]

== Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 nov matake. See LICENSE for details.
